docs/oss vs enterprise downsampling (#9907)
VictoriaMetrics/VictoriaMetrics: docs/guides/guide-vmcluster-multiple-retention-setup/README.md

---

> **Objective**

Author: This isn't a new guide so there is an _index.md file already present in that directory. I also tested with make docs-debug and the guide appears in the side bar.

Setup a VictoriaMetrics Cluster with support of multiple retention periods within one installation.

**Enterprise Solution**

[VictoriaMetrics Enterprise](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victoriametrics/enterprise/) supports multiple retention periods natively on both the [cluster](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victoriametrics/cluster-victoriametrics/#retention-filters) and the [single node](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victoriametrics/single-server-victoriametrics/#multiple-retentions) versions.

> You can filter which metrics a retention filter applies to. Below you can see 3 retention filters. The first one matches any metrics with the `juniors` label and will be kept for 3 days. The second filter says anything with `dev` or `staging` should be kept for 30 days. And finally, the last filter is the default filter of 1 year.

Reviewer: Links to appropriate sections in the docs should be provided.

> You can filter which metrics a retention filter applies to. Below you can see 3 retention filters. The first one matches any metrics with the `juniors` label and will be kept for 3 days. The second filter says anything with `dev` or `staging` should be kept for 30 days. And finally, the last filter is the default filter of 1 year.

Author: I have links for the single node and cluster docs for retention filters. What other docs should I link?

**Enterprise Solution**

[VictoriaMetrics Enterprise](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victoriametrics/enterprise/) supports multiple retention periods natively on both the [cluster](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victoriametrics/cluster-victoriametrics/#retention-filters) and the [single node](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victoriametrics/single-server-victoriametrics/#multiple-retentions) versions.
You can filter which metrics a retention filter applies to. Below you can see 3 retention filters. The first one matches any metrics with the `juniors` tag and will keep those for 3 days. The second filter says anything with `dev` or `staging` should be kept for 30 days. And finally, the last filter is the default filter of 1 year.

> ```bash

Author: Can you be more specific? I'm not sure what you want changed.

**Additional Enhancements**

You can set up [vmauth](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victoriametrics/vmauth/) for routing data to the given vminsert group depending on the needed retention.

**Downsides Of This Approach**

> This approach requires storing the index for Victoriametrics once per retention period instead of having 1 index for all metrics, which means that this approach requires more disk space than enterprise.

Author: ```suggestion
This approach requires storing the index for Victoriametrics once per retention period instead of having 1 index for all metrics, which means that this approach requires more disk space than enterprise retention filters.
```

> This approach requires storing the index for Victoriametrics once per retention period instead of having 1 index for all metrics, which means that this approach requires more disk space than enterprise retention filters.

Reviewer 2: maybe it's better to highlight here something like "storing a separate index for each retention cluster" because you need to keep a single retention for a separate cluster

> more nodes means more indexes, which means more storage space devoted to data that isn't your metrics. With the [Enterprise version](https://docs.victoriametrics.com/victoriametrics/cluster-victoriametrics/#retention-filters) one node can handle multiple retention periods, reducing the number of nodes and thus the storage space taken up by indexes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This approach requires storing the index for Victoriametrics once per retention period instead of having 1 index for all metrics, which means that this approach requires more disk space than enterprise downsampling.
```

The index can be quite large on systems where they have time series that change frequently. In some cases, the index size can be larger than the space you're saving with separate retention periods.

> Configuration complexity is also a concern; each retention period would have its own storage nodes and unique configurations.

Reviewer 3: this should go into a little more detail about what happens if you need to change retention policies and explain why it is uses more compute resources, and is more complex than a single cluster.

> Configuration complexity is also a concern; each retention period would have its own storage nodes and unique configurations. Adding a new retention policy requires a multi-step process. First stop writes going to the cluster, create a new cluster, backup and restore data from an other cluster, change the configuration of all storage nodes to the new retention policy, restart the cluster, than re-add the cluster to the write path. While the cluster is down reads will not contain complete results.

Author: Can you be more specific? I'm not sure what you want changed.
